  Module 4) CSS and CSS 3


      1.What are the benefits of using CSS?

      ANS:

      1) Faster Page Speed
      More code means slower page speed. And CSS enables you to use less code. CSS allows you to use one CSS rule and apply it
      to all occurrences of a certain tag within an HTML document.
      
      2) Better User Experience
      CSS not only makes web pages easy on the eye, it also allows for user-friendly formatting. When buttons and text are in
      logical places and well organized, user experience improves.
      
      3) Quicker Development Time
      With CSS, you can apply specific formatting rules and styles to multiple pages with one string of code. One cascading
      style sheet can be replicated across several website pages. If, for instance, you have product pages that should all
      have the same formatting, look, and feel, writing CSS rules for one page will suffice for all pages of that same type.
      
      4) Easy Formatting Changes
      If you need to change the format of a specific set of pages, it’s easy to do so with CSS. There’s no need to fix every
      individual page. Just edit the corresponding CSS stylesheet and you’ll see changes applied to all the pages that are
      using that style sheet.
      
      5) Compatibility Across Devices
      Responsive web design matters. In today’s day and age, web pages must be fully visible and easily navigable on all
      devices. Whether mobile or tablet, desktop, or even smart TV, CSS combines with HTML to make responsive design possible.

     
       2.What are the disadvantages of CSS?

       ANS:

        CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among web browsers.
        
        With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with another. The web developers need to test for
        compatibility, running the program across multiple browsers.
        
        There exists a scarcity of security.
        
        After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear. The similar change affects on all the
        browsers.
        
        The programming language world is complicated for non-developers and beginners. Different levels of CSS i.e. CSS, CSS 2,
        CSS 3 are often quite confusing.
        
        Browser compatibility (some styles sheet are supported and some are not).
        CSS works differently on different browsers. IE and Opera supports CSS as different logic.
        
        There might be cross-browser issues while using CSS.
        
        There are multiple levels which creates confusion for non-developers and beginners.

     3.What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?

     ANS:
     


     4.Name a few CSS style components

     ANS:

     1. Easily maintainable:
            If you are intended to make any global change, change the styling, and you can see all other elements in all other web pages getting automatically updated.

     2. CSS is time-saving:
            You can write the script once and reuse the same sheet as much time as you want.

     3. Superior styles to the native front end: 
            CSS has a much wider array of attributes and lists than HTML. Therefore the HTML page can have a brighter look and feel than the normal HTML attributes.

     4. Ease with Search Engines: 
             CSS is a convenient and easy-to-read styling sheet. This means that search engines don’t have to put in much effort trying to read the text.
            
     5. Efficient cache storing:
             CSS can store web applications locally with the help of an offline cache mechanism that can be used to view offline websites.       

     5.What do you understand by CSS opacity?
     
     ANS:

     The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.

     The opacity in CSS is the property of an element that describes the transparency of the element. It is the opposite of transparency & represents the degree to which the content will be hidden behind an element.

     Image Opacity: The opacity property is used in the image to describe the transparency of the image. The value of opacity lies between 0.0 to 1.0 where a low value represents high transparency and a high value represents low transparency. The percentage of opacity is calculated as Opacity% = Opacity * 100.

    6.How can the background color of an element be changed?

    ANS:

    To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.

    The background-color property in CSS is used to set the background color of an element. It applies solid colors as the element's background. The background of an element covers the total size, including the padding and border, but excluding margin. It can be applied to all HTML elements.

    7.How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?

    ANS:

    This task can be achieved by using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image. The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.

    The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.

    In this article, we will see how an image repetition of the backup is controlled in CSS. This task can be achieved by using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image.
       
    8.What is the use of the background-position property?

    ANS:

    The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. Tip: By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.

    The background-position property in CSS is mainly used to sets the initial position for the background image ie., it is used to set an image at a certain position. The position that is relative to the positioning layer, can be set by using the background-origin property.

    9.Which property controls the image scroll in the background?

    ANS:

    scroll:	The background image will scroll with the page. This is default
    fixed:	The background image will not scroll with the page
    local	:The background image will scroll with the element's contents
    initial:	Sets this property to its default value. Read about initial
    inherit	:Inherits this property from its parent element. Read about inherit

    10.Why should background and color be used as separate properties?

    ANS:

    Why background and color are the separate properties if they should always be set together? There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.

    it enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.

    11.How to center block elements using CSS1?

    ANS:

    To centrally align the block elements, we can simply make use of the <center> tag. All the elements within the <center> tag will be centrally aligned.

   Step 1: Define the external width – We need to define the external width. Block-level elements have the default width of 100% of the webpage, so for centering the block element, we need space around it. So for generating the space, we are giving it a width.

   Step 2: Set the left-margin and the right-margin of the element to auto – Since we produced a remaining space by providing external width so now we need to align that space properly that’s why we should use margin property. Margin is a property that tells how to align a remaining space. So for centering the element you must set left-margin to auto and right-margin to auto.

  12.How to maintain the CSS specifications?

  ANS:

  The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Internet media type (MIME type) text/css is registered for use with CSS by RFC 2318 (March 1998).

  The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), an international organization, is the primary standards body for the World Wide Web. A consortium founded by Tim Berners-Lee in 1994 and led by him, it brings together full-time staff from member organizations to work on developing World Wide Web standards.

  It is possible to write CSS by itself, as well as within an HTML file. Insert the HTML file into it.

  You will learn CSS fundamentals such as the box model, cascade and specificity, flexbox, grid, and z-index, in addition to CSS fundamentals. Along with these fundamentals, you will learn about functions, color types, gradient functions, logical properties, and inheritance, all of which will help you become a well-rounded front-end developer who is ready to work on any user interface.

  13.What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?

  ANS:

  CSS may be added to HTML in three different ways. To style a single HTML element on the page, use Inline CSS in a style attribute. By adding CSS to the head section of our HTML document, we can embed an internal stylesheet. We can also connect to an external stylesheet that separates our CSS from our HTML

  Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements
  Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section
  External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file

  Inline CSS:
  An inline CSS is used to apply a unique style to a single HTML element.

  An inline CSS uses the style attribute of an HTML element.

 Internal CSS:
 An internal CSS is used to define a style for a single HTML page.

 An internal CSS is defined in the <head> section of an HTML page, within a <style> element.

 External CSS
 An external style sheet is used to define the style for many HTML pages.
  
 To use an external style sheet, add a link to it in the <head> section of each HTML page

14.What is embedded style sheets?

ANS:

An embedded style sheet is declared within the <head> element of an XHTML document. It applies to the whole document, rather than just one element. Each style declaration (or CSS rule) gets applied to everything in the document that matches that rule.

  Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document. Embedded style sheets are particularly useful for HTML documents that have unique style requirements from the rest of the documents in your project. 
  
  However, if the styles need to be applied across multiple documents, you should link to an external style sheet instead of using individual embedded style sheets. Using embedded stylesheets holds a distinct advantage over inline styles which only allow you to address one HTML element at a time. 

  15.What are the external style sheets?

  ANS:

  An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.

  With an external style sheet, you can change the look of an entire website by changing just one file!

 Each HTML page must include a reference to the external style sheet file inside the <link> element, inside the head section.

 16.What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?

 ANS:

 Advantages of external CSS:

 Easy for the user to customize the online page
 It reduces the file transfer size.
 It is less complex therefore the effort are significantly reduced.
 It helps to form spontaneous and consistent changes.
 The main advantage of CSS is that style is applied consistently across variety of sites. One instruction can control several areas which is advantageous.

 Disadvantages of external CSS:

 CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among  web browsers.
 After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear. The similar change affects on all the browsers.
 CSS works differently on different browsers. IE and Opera supports CSS as different logic.
 There might be cross-browser issues while using CSS.
 There are multiple levels which creates confusion for non-developers and beginners.
     
 17.What is the meaning of the CSS selector?

 ANS:

 A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

 type selectors – matching a specific element
 class selectors – matching elements with a specific class
 ID selectors – matching the element with a specific ID
 universal selectors – matching any element

 18.What are the media types allowed by CSS?

 ANS:
 
 Media queries can be used to check many things, such as:

 width and height of the viewport
 width and height of the device
 orientation (is the tablet/phone in landscape or portrait mode?)
 resolution
 Using media queries are a popular technique for delivering a tailored style sheet to desktops, laptops, tablets, and mobile phones (such as iPhone and Android phones).

 ne very important specification made by style sheet is, on which media a web document will be presented; whether it is screen, paper, speech synthesizer, braille device etc.

 19.What is the rule selector?

 ANS:

 A table of instructions used by a controlled interface to determine what data is allowable and how the data is handled between interconnected systems.

 Rule level:
 As with individual Data Rules, this view provides insight into the exceptions to each rule within the rule set. For example, "record 1 did not meet rule A."
Record level:
 Looking across the entire record, this view provides insight into the cases where a record had an exception to one or multiple rules. For example, "record 1 did not meet rules A, B, and C."
Source level:
 Looking through the entire data source, this view provides summarized insight into how many records have one or multiple rule exceptions, what the mean number of record exceptions are, what the standard deviation is from the mean, and, when compared to a baseline run, whether the source has improved or degraded in quality.

    






